docs/Getting-Started-with-Balance-Ball.md, before:

# Getting Started with the 3D Balance Ball Environment

This tutorial walks through the end-to-end process of opening a ML-Agents
toolkit example environment in Unity, building the Unity executable, training an
Agent in it, and finally embedding the trained model into the Unity environment.

The ML-Agents toolkit includes a number of [example
environments](Learning-Environment-Examples.md) which you can examine to help
understand the different ways in which the ML-Agents toolkit can be used. These
environments can also serve as templates for new environments or as ways to test
new ML algorithms. After reading this tutorial, you should be able to explore
and build the example environments.

![3D Balance Ball](images/balance.png)

This walk-through uses the **3D Balance Ball** environment. 3D Balance Ball
contains a number of platforms and balls (which are all copies of each other).
Each platform tries to keep its ball from falling by rotating either
horizontally or vertically. In this environment, a platform is an **Agent** that
receives a reward for every step that it balances the ball. An agent is also
penalized with a negative reward for dropping the ball. The goal of the training
process is to have the platforms learn to never drop the ball.

Let's get started!

## Installation

In order to install and set up the ML-Agents toolkit, the Python dependencies
and Unity, see the [installation instructions](Installation.md).

## Understanding a Unity Environment (3D Balance Ball)

An agent is an autonomous actor that observes and interacts with an
_environment_. In the context of Unity, an environment is a scene containing an
Academy and one or more Brain and Agent objects, and, of course, the other
entities that an agent interacts with.

![Unity Editor](images/mlagents-3DBallHierarchy.png)

**Note:** In Unity, the base object of everything in a scene is the
_GameObject_. The GameObject is essentially a container for everything else,
including behaviors, graphics, physics, etc. To see the components that make up
a GameObject, select the GameObject in the Scene window, and open the Inspector
window. The Inspector shows every component on a GameObject.

The first thing you may notice after opening the 3D Balance Ball scene is that
it contains not one, but several platforms.  Each platform in the scene is an
independent agent, but they all share the same Brain. 3D Balance Ball does this
to speed up training since all twelve agents contribute to training in parallel.

### Academy

The Academy object for the scene is placed on the Ball3DAcademy GameObject. When
you look at an Academy component in the inspector, you can see several
properties that control how the environment works. 
The **Broadcast Hub** keeps track of which Brains will send data during training,
If a Brain is added to the hub, his data will be sent to the external training
process. If the `Control` checkbox is checked, the training process will be able to
control the agents linked to the Brain to train them.
The **Training** and **Inference Configuration** properties 
set the graphics and timescale properties for the Unity application. 
The Academy uses the **Training Configuration**  during training and the
**Inference Configuration** when not training. (*Inference* means that the 
Agent is using a trained model or heuristics or direct control — in other 
words, whenever **not** training.)
Typically, you set low graphics quality and a high time scale for the **Training
configuration** and a high graphics quality and the timescale to `1.0` for the
**Inference Configuration** .

**Note:** if you want to observe the environment during training, you can adjust
the **Training Configuration** settings to use a larger window and a timescale
closer to 1:1. Be sure to set these parameters back when training in earnest;
otherwise, training can take a very long time.

Another aspect of an environment to look at is the Academy implementation. Since
the base Academy class is abstract, you must always define a subclass. There are
three functions you can implement, though they are all optional:

* Academy.InitializeAcademy() — Called once when the environment is launched.
* Academy.AcademyStep() — Called at every simulation step before
  agent.AgentAction() (and after the Agents collect their observations).
* Academy.AcademyReset() — Called when the Academy starts or restarts the
  simulation (including the first time).

The 3D Balance Ball environment does not use these functions — each Agent resets
itself when needed — but many environments do use these functions to control the
environment around the Agents.

### Brain

Brains are assets that exist in your project folder. The Ball3DAgents are connected
to a Brain, for example : the **3DBallLearning**.
A Brain doesn't store any information about an Agent, it just
routes the Agent's collected observations to the decision making process and
returns the chosen action to the Agent. Thus, all Agents can share the same
Brain, but act independently. The Brain settings tell you quite a bit about how
an Agent works.

You can create Brain objects by selecting `Assets -> 
Create -> ML-Agents -> Brain`. There are 3 kinds of Brains :
The **Learning Brain** is a Brain that uses a Neural Network to take decisions.
When the Brain is checked as `Control` in the Academy **Broadcast Hub**, the 
external process will be taking decisions for the agents
and generate a neural network when the training is over. You can also use the
**Learning Brain** with a pre-trained model.
The **Heuristic** Brain allows you to hand-code the Agent's logic by extending
the Decision class.
Finally, the **Player** Brain lets you map keyboard commands to actions, which
can be useful when testing your agents and environment. If none of these types
of Brains do what you need, you can implement your own Brain.

In this tutorial, you will use a **Learning Brain** for training.

#### Vector Observation Space

Before making a decision, an agent collects its observation about its state in
the world. The vector observation is a vector of floating point numbers which
contain relevant information for the agent to make decisions.

The Brain instance used in the 3D Balance Ball example uses the **Continuous**
vector observation space with a **State Size** of 8. This means that the feature
vector containing the Agent's observations contains eight elements: the `x` and
`z` components of the platform's rotation and the `x`, `y`, and `z` components
of the ball's relative position and velocity. (The observation values are
defined in the Agent's `CollectObservations()` function.)

#### Vector Action Space

An Agent is given instructions from the Brain in the form of *actions*.
ML-Agents toolkit classifies actions into two types: the **Continuous** vector
action space is a vector of numbers that can vary continuously. What each
element of the vector means is defined by the Agent logic (the PPO training
process just learns what values are better given particular state observations
based on the rewards received when it tries different values). For example, an
element might represent a force or torque applied to a `Rigidbody` in the Agent.
The **Discrete** action vector space defines its actions as tables. An action
given to the Agent is an array of indices into tables.

The 3D Balance Ball example is programmed to use both types of vector action
space. You can try training with both settings to observe whether there is a
difference. (Set the `Vector Action Space Size` to 4 when using the discrete
action space and 2 when using continuous.)

### Agent

The Agent is the actor that observes and takes actions in the environment. In
the 3D Balance Ball environment, the Agent components are placed on the twelve
Platform GameObjects. The base Agent object has a few properties that affect its
behavior:

* **Brain** — Every Agent must have a Brain. The Brain determines how an Agent
  makes decisions. All the Agents in the 3D Balance Ball scene share the same
  Brain.
* **Visual Observations** — Defines any Camera objects used by the Agent to
  observe its environment. 3D Balance Ball does not use camera observations.
* **Max Step** — Defines how many simulation steps can occur before the Agent
  decides it is done. In 3D Balance Ball, an Agent restarts after 5000 steps.
* **Reset On Done** — Defines whether an Agent starts over when it is finished.
  3D Balance Ball sets this true so that the Agent restarts after reaching the
  **Max Step** count or after dropping the ball.

Perhaps the more interesting aspect of an agents is the Agent subclass
implementation. When you create an Agent, you must extend the base Agent class.
The Ball3DAgent subclass defines the following methods:

* agent.AgentReset() — Called when the Agent resets, including at the beginning
  of a session. The Ball3DAgent class uses the reset function to reset the
  platform and ball. The function randomizes the reset values so that the
  training generalizes to more than a specific starting position and platform
  attitude.
* agent.CollectObservations() — Called every simulation step. Responsible for
  collecting the Agent's observations of the environment. Since the Brain
  instance assigned to the Agent is set to the continuous vector observation
  space with a state size of 8, the `CollectObservations()` must call
  `AddVectorObs` such that  vector size adds up to 8.
* agent.AgentAction() — Called every simulation step. Receives the action chosen
  by the Brain. The Ball3DAgent example handles both the continuous and the
  discrete action space types. There isn't actually much difference between the
  two state types in this environment — both vector action spaces result in a
  small change in platform rotation at each step. The `AgentAction()` function
  assigns a reward to the Agent; in this example, an Agent receives a small
  positive reward for each step it keeps the ball on the platform and a larger,
  negative reward for dropping the ball. An Agent is also marked as done when it
  drops the ball so that it will reset with a new ball for the next simulation
  step.

## Training the Brain with Reinforcement Learning

Now that we have an environment, we can perform the training.

### Training with PPO

In order to train an agent to correctly balance the ball, we will use a
Reinforcement Learning algorithm called Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO). This
is a method that has been shown to be safe, efficient, and more general purpose
than many other RL algorithms, as such we have chosen it as the example
algorithm for use with ML-Agents toolkit. For more information on PPO, OpenAI
has a recent [blog post](https://blog.openai.com/openai-baselines-ppo/)
explaining it.

To train the agents within the Ball Balance environment, we will be using the
Python package. We have provided a convenient script called `mlagents-learn`
which accepts arguments used to configure both training and inference phases.

We can use `run_id` to identify the experiment and create a folder where the
model and summary statistics are stored. When using TensorBoard to observe the
training statistics, it helps to set this to a sequential value for each
training run. In other words, "BalanceBall1" for the first run, "BalanceBall2"
or the second, and so on. If you don't, the summaries for every training run are
saved to the same directory and will all be included on the same graph.

To summarize, go to your command line, enter the `ml-agents` directory and type:

```sh
mlagents-learn config/trainer_config.yaml --run-id=<run-identifier> --train
```

When the message _"Start training by pressing the Play button in the Unity
Editor"_ is displayed on the screen, you can press the :arrow_forward: button in
Unity to start training in the Editor.

**Note**: If you're using Anaconda, don't forget to activate the ml-agents
environment first.

The `--train` flag tells the ML-Agents toolkit to run in training mode.

**Note**: You can train using an executable rather than the Editor. To do so,
follow the instructions in
[Using an Executable](Learning-Environment-Executable.md).

### Observing Training Progress

Once you start training using `mlagents-learn` in the way described in the
previous section, the `ml-agents` directory will contain a `summaries`
directory. In order to observe the training process in more detail, you can use
TensorBoard. From the command line run:

```sh
tensorboard --logdir=summaries
```

Then navigate to `localhost:6006` in your browser.

From TensorBoard, you will see the summary statistics:

* Lesson - only interesting when performing [curriculum
  training](Training-Curriculum-Learning.md). This is not used in the 3D Balance
  Ball environment.
* Cumulative Reward - The mean cumulative episode reward over all agents. Should
  increase during a successful training session.
* Entropy - How random the decisions of the model are. Should slowly decrease
  during a successful training process. If it decreases too quickly, the `beta`
  hyperparameter should be increased.
* Episode Length - The mean length of each episode in the environment for all
  agents.
* Learning Rate - How large a step the training algorithm takes as it searches
  for the optimal policy. Should decrease over time.
* Policy Loss - The mean loss of the policy function update. Correlates to how
  much the policy (process for deciding actions) is changing. The magnitude of
  this should decrease during a successful training session.
* Value Estimate - The mean value estimate for all states visited by the agent.
  Should increase during a successful training session.
* Value Loss - The mean loss of the value function update. Correlates to how
  well the model is able to predict the value of each state. This should
  decrease during a successful training session.

![Example TensorBoard Run](images/mlagents-TensorBoard.png)

## Embedding the Trained Brain into the Unity Environment (Experimental)

Once the training process completes, and the training process saves the model
(denoted by the `Saved Model` message) you can add it to the Unity project and
use it with Agents having a **Learning Brain**.
__Note:__ Do not just close the Unity Window once the `Saved Model` message appears. 
Either wait for the training process to close the window or press Ctrl+C at the 
command-line prompt. If you simply close the window manually, the `.tf` file 
containing the trained model is not exported into the ml-agents folder.

### Setting up Inference Support

In order to run neural network models inside of Unity, you will need to setup the
Inference Engine with an appropriate backend. See [here](Inference-Engine.md) for more
information.

### Embedding the trained model into Unity

To embed the trained model into Unity, follow the later part of [Training the
Brain with Reinforcement
Learning](Basic-Guide.md#training-the-brain-with-reinforcement-learning) section
of the Basic Guide page.

Commit message:

Add blurb about using the --load flag in the intro guide, and typo fix.

docs/Getting-Started-with-Balance-Ball.md, after:

# Getting Started with the 3D Balance Ball Environment

This tutorial walks through the end-to-end process of opening a ML-Agents
toolkit example environment in Unity, building the Unity executable, training an
Agent in it, and finally embedding the trained model into the Unity environment.

The ML-Agents toolkit includes a number of [example
environments](Learning-Environment-Examples.md) which you can examine to help
understand the different ways in which the ML-Agents toolkit can be used. These
environments can also serve as templates for new environments or as ways to test
new ML algorithms. After reading this tutorial, you should be able to explore
and build the example environments.

![3D Balance Ball](images/balance.png)

This walk-through uses the **3D Balance Ball** environment. 3D Balance Ball
contains a number of platforms and balls (which are all copies of each other).
Each platform tries to keep its ball from falling by rotating either
horizontally or vertically. In this environment, a platform is an **Agent** that
receives a reward for every step that it balances the ball. An agent is also
penalized with a negative reward for dropping the ball. The goal of the training
process is to have the platforms learn to never drop the ball.

Let's get started!

## Installation

In order to install and set up the ML-Agents toolkit, the Python dependencies
and Unity, see the [installation instructions](Installation.md).

## Understanding a Unity Environment (3D Balance Ball)

An agent is an autonomous actor that observes and interacts with an
_environment_. In the context of Unity, an environment is a scene containing an
Academy and one or more Brain and Agent objects, and, of course, the other
entities that an agent interacts with.

![Unity Editor](images/mlagents-3DBallHierarchy.png)

**Note:** In Unity, the base object of everything in a scene is the
_GameObject_. The GameObject is essentially a container for everything else,
including behaviors, graphics, physics, etc. To see the components that make up
a GameObject, select the GameObject in the Scene window, and open the Inspector
window. The Inspector shows every component on a GameObject.

The first thing you may notice after opening the 3D Balance Ball scene is that
it contains not one, but several platforms.  Each platform in the scene is an
independent agent, but they all share the same Brain. 3D Balance Ball does this
to speed up training since all twelve agents contribute to training in parallel.

### Academy

The Academy object for the scene is placed on the Ball3DAcademy GameObject. When
you look at an Academy component in the inspector, you can see several
properties that control how the environment works. 
The **Broadcast Hub** keeps track of which Brains will send data during training,
If a Brain is added to the hub, his data will be sent to the external training
process. If the `Control` checkbox is checked, the training process will be able to
control the agents linked to the Brain to train them.
The **Training** and **Inference Configuration** properties 
set the graphics and timescale properties for the Unity application. 
The Academy uses the **Training Configuration**  during training and the
**Inference Configuration** when not training. (*Inference* means that the 
Agent is using a trained model or heuristics or direct control — in other 
words, whenever **not** training.)
Typically, you set low graphics quality and a high time scale for the **Training
configuration** and a high graphics quality and the timescale to `1.0` for the
**Inference Configuration** .

**Note:** if you want to observe the environment during training, you can adjust
the **Training Configuration** settings to use a larger window and a timescale
closer to 1:1. Be sure to set these parameters back when training in earnest;
otherwise, training can take a very long time.

Another aspect of an environment to look at is the Academy implementation. Since
the base Academy class is abstract, you must always define a subclass. There are
three functions you can implement, though they are all optional:

* Academy.InitializeAcademy() — Called once when the environment is launched.
* Academy.AcademyStep() — Called at every simulation step before
  agent.AgentAction() (and after the Agents collect their observations).
* Academy.AcademyReset() — Called when the Academy starts or restarts the
  simulation (including the first time).

The 3D Balance Ball environment does not use these functions — each Agent resets
itself when needed — but many environments do use these functions to control the
environment around the Agents.

### Brain

Brains are assets that exist in your project folder. The Ball3DAgents are connected
to a Brain, for example : the **3DBallLearning**.
A Brain doesn't store any information about an Agent, it just
routes the Agent's collected observations to the decision making process and
returns the chosen action to the Agent. Thus, all Agents can share the same
Brain, but act independently. The Brain settings tell you quite a bit about how
an Agent works.

You can create Brain objects by selecting `Assets -> 
Create -> ML-Agents -> Brain`. There are 3 kinds of Brains :
The **Learning Brain** is a Brain that uses a Neural Network to take decisions.
When the Brain is checked as `Control` in the Academy **Broadcast Hub**, the 
external process will be taking decisions for the agents
and generate a neural network when the training is over. You can also use the
**Learning Brain** with a pre-trained model.
The **Heuristic** Brain allows you to hand-code the Agent's logic by extending
the Decision class.
Finally, the **Player** Brain lets you map keyboard commands to actions, which
can be useful when testing your agents and environment. If none of these types
of Brains do what you need, you can implement your own Brain.

In this tutorial, you will use a **Learning Brain** for training.

#### Vector Observation Space

Before making a decision, an agent collects its observation about its state in
the world. The vector observation is a vector of floating point numbers which
contain relevant information for the agent to make decisions.

The Brain instance used in the 3D Balance Ball example uses the **Continuous**
vector observation space with a **State Size** of 8. This means that the feature
vector containing the Agent's observations contains eight elements: the `x` and
`z` components of the platform's rotation and the `x`, `y`, and `z` components
of the ball's relative position and velocity. (The observation values are
defined in the Agent's `CollectObservations()` function.)

#### Vector Action Space

An Agent is given instructions from the Brain in the form of *actions*.
ML-Agents toolkit classifies actions into two types: the **Continuous** vector
action space is a vector of numbers that can vary continuously. What each
element of the vector means is defined by the Agent logic (the PPO training
process just learns what values are better given particular state observations
based on the rewards received when it tries different values). For example, an
element might represent a force or torque applied to a `Rigidbody` in the Agent.
The **Discrete** action vector space defines its actions as tables. An action
given to the Agent is an array of indices into tables.

The 3D Balance Ball example is programmed to use both types of vector action
space. You can try training with both settings to observe whether there is a
difference. (Set the `Vector Action Space Size` to 4 when using the discrete
action space and 2 when using continuous.)

### Agent

The Agent is the actor that observes and takes actions in the environment. In
the 3D Balance Ball environment, the Agent components are placed on the twelve
Platform GameObjects. The base Agent object has a few properties that affect its
behavior:

* **Brain** — Every Agent must have a Brain. The Brain determines how an Agent
  makes decisions. All the Agents in the 3D Balance Ball scene share the same
  Brain.
* **Visual Observations** — Defines any Camera objects used by the Agent to
  observe its environment. 3D Balance Ball does not use camera observations.
* **Max Step** — Defines how many simulation steps can occur before the Agent
  decides it is done. In 3D Balance Ball, an Agent restarts after 5000 steps.
* **Reset On Done** — Defines whether an Agent starts over when it is finished.
  3D Balance Ball sets this true so that the Agent restarts after reaching the
  **Max Step** count or after dropping the ball.

Perhaps the more interesting aspect of an agents is the Agent subclass
implementation. When you create an Agent, you must extend the base Agent class.
The Ball3DAgent subclass defines the following methods:

* agent.AgentReset() — Called when the Agent resets, including at the beginning
  of a session. The Ball3DAgent class uses the reset function to reset the
  platform and ball. The function randomizes the reset values so that the
  training generalizes to more than a specific starting position and platform
  attitude.
* agent.CollectObservations() — Called every simulation step. Responsible for
  collecting the Agent's observations of the environment. Since the Brain
  instance assigned to the Agent is set to the continuous vector observation
  space with a state size of 8, the `CollectObservations()` must call
  `AddVectorObs` such that  vector size adds up to 8.
* agent.AgentAction() — Called every simulation step. Receives the action chosen
  by the Brain. The Ball3DAgent example handles both the continuous and the
  discrete action space types. There isn't actually much difference between the
  two state types in this environment — both vector action spaces result in a
  small change in platform rotation at each step. The `AgentAction()` function
  assigns a reward to the Agent; in this example, an Agent receives a small
  positive reward for each step it keeps the ball on the platform and a larger,
  negative reward for dropping the ball. An Agent is also marked as done when it
  drops the ball so that it will reset with a new ball for the next simulation
  step.

## Training the Brain with Reinforcement Learning

Now that we have an environment, we can perform the training.

### Training with PPO

In order to train an agent to correctly balance the ball, we will use a
Reinforcement Learning algorithm called Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO). This
is a method that has been shown to be safe, efficient, and more general purpose
than many other RL algorithms, as such we have chosen it as the example
algorithm for use with ML-Agents toolkit. For more information on PPO, OpenAI
has a recent [blog post](https://blog.openai.com/openai-baselines-ppo/)
explaining it.

To train the agents within the Ball Balance environment, we will be using the
Python package. We have provided a convenient script called `mlagents-learn`
which accepts arguments used to configure both training and inference phases.

We can use `run_id` to identify the experiment and create a folder where the
model and summary statistics are stored. When using TensorBoard to observe the
training statistics, it helps to set this to a sequential value for each
training run. In other words, "BalanceBall1" for the first run, "BalanceBall2"
or the second, and so on. If you don't, the summaries for every training run are
saved to the same directory and will all be included on the same graph.

To summarize, go to your command line, enter the `ml-agents` directory and type:

```sh
mlagents-learn config/trainer_config.yaml --run-id=<run-identifier> --train
```

When the message _"Start training by pressing the Play button in the Unity
Editor"_ is displayed on the screen, you can press the :arrow_forward: button in
Unity to start training in the Editor.

**Note**: If you're using Anaconda, don't forget to activate the ml-agents
environment first.

The `--train` flag tells the ML-Agents toolkit to run in training mode.

**Note**: You can train using an executable rather than the Editor. To do so,
follow the instructions in
[Using an Executable](Learning-Environment-Executable.md).

**Note**: Re-running this command will start training from scratch again. To resume
a previous training run, append the `--load` flag and give the same `--run-id` as the
run you want to resume.

### Observing Training Progress

Once you start training using `mlagents-learn` in the way described in the
previous section, the `ml-agents` directory will contain a `summaries`
directory. In order to observe the training process in more detail, you can use
TensorBoard. From the command line run:

```sh
tensorboard --logdir=summaries
```

Then navigate to `localhost:6006` in your browser.

From TensorBoard, you will see the summary statistics:

* Lesson - only interesting when performing [curriculum
  training](Training-Curriculum-Learning.md). This is not used in the 3D Balance
  Ball environment.
* Cumulative Reward - The mean cumulative episode reward over all agents. Should
  increase during a successful training session.
* Entropy - How random the decisions of the model are. Should slowly decrease
  during a successful training process. If it decreases too quickly, the `beta`
  hyperparameter should be increased.
* Episode Length - The mean length of each episode in the environment for all
  agents.
* Learning Rate - How large a step the training algorithm takes as it searches
  for the optimal policy. Should decrease over time.
* Policy Loss - The mean loss of the policy function update. Correlates to how
  much the policy (process for deciding actions) is changing. The magnitude of
  this should decrease during a successful training session.
* Value Estimate - The mean value estimate for all states visited by the agent.
  Should increase during a successful training session.
* Value Loss - The mean loss of the value function update. Correlates to how
  well the model is able to predict the value of each state. This should
  decrease during a successful training session.

![Example TensorBoard Run](images/mlagents-TensorBoard.png)

## Embedding the Trained Brain into the Unity Environment (Experimental)

Once the training process completes, and the training process saves the model
(denoted by the `Saved Model` message) you can add it to the Unity project and
use it with Agents having a **Learning Brain**.
__Note:__ Do not just close the Unity Window once the `Saved Model` message appears. 
Either wait for the training process to close the window or press Ctrl+C at the 
command-line prompt. If you simply close the window manually, the `.tf` file 
containing the trained model is not exported into the ml-agents folder.

### Setting up Inference Support

In order to run neural network models inside of Unity, you will need to setup the
Inference Engine with an appropriate backend. See [here](Inference-Engine.md) for more
information.

### Embedding the trained model into Unity

To embed the trained model into Unity, follow the later part of [Training the
Brain with Reinforcement
Learning](Basic-Guide.md#training-the-brain-with-reinforcement-learning) section
of the Basic Guide page.
